hey guys what up this is a really short
video in response to a question I got on
the livestream you guys will notice from
time to time I post on YouTube that I'm
live-streaming click on the link the
live streams are on another website
called Yunel which is in some ways a
sister website to youtube and in some
ways a competitor but when you see that
you can click over and join the
conversation and sometimes I do announce
my live streams in advance so I do
answer questions from people who donate
$1 a month on patreon and I answer
questions from whoever happens to show
up when I'm live-streaming and and this
is an example that someone just showed
up and and in happen ask question the
question boils down to what would you do
if you are a vegan and your parents are
demanding that you compromise with the
compromise being that you're expected to
eat meat or fish a couple of times a
year
no it wasn't stated in the question but
I'd assume the nature of the compromise
is Christmas Thanksgiving Kwanzaa du
Valley Presidents Day yo the Ides of
March that there are some I assume it's
for special holidays or especially maybe
it's going to your brother's wedding
wouldn't it be easier for the whole
family if when you went to the wedding
you just ate meat like everyone else
I assume that's the point and that it's
not that they want you to eat meat when
you happen to be at the side of a road
and stop at a McDonald's but it wasn't
wasn't stated the question some parents
might be won't make some some of you the
others so I started my reply by saying
it is a little bit different depending
on the person you're giving the advice
to you know not everyone is confident
standing up to an authority figure not
everyone is confident standing up to an
authority figure who raised you and
cared for you and you have these kinds
of complex emotional connections - it
can be hard it can be traumatizing it
can be it can be really traumatizing for
the person doing the standing up whether
or not it's traumatizing for your
parents I kind of doubt it and you know
beyond that is the question then of what
kind of rhetoric you deploy if you're
gonna stand up here your parents so
comment on that first and they don't
comment a little bit about the concept
of compromise itself here's an example
what I used to call a vegan mind trick
used to have a blog called vegan mine
if your parents ask you to be a
meat-eater for just a few days a year
you can turn around and ask them for me
would you be Muslim for just a few days
a year
the point being if you converted to
Islam would they participate in Muslim
prayer going to Muslim temple going to
an Islamic temple participating in that
ideology that religion and that identity
for a few days a year
for a few festivals probably for a few
ceremonies a few days a year now I think
again most white Western parents would
be shocked at that they would would
suddenly make them think about it in a
very different way that the type of
compromise they're asking you to make is
a compromise an ideological compromise
compromising your identity a compromise
in your beliefs that is I think in many
ways much more fundamental than someone
pretending to be Muslim because you can
you can participate in Muslim ceremonies
without actually believing in the Muslim
faith and you can participate in Muslim
ceremonies without doing harm and the
reality is by buying meat and eating
meat you are doing harm you're doing
damage you're doing damage to yourself
to ecology to the animals etc right
there are real outcomes okay now I think
I mean again this is the problem with
giving advice on the Internet there are
some families where if you said that to
your parents they would be delighted and
say oh yeah great that'd be fine
they'd be totally happy to for you know
become a fake Muslim as it were for
several days a year there'd be some
families where you could ask the same
thing about Hinduism instead of Islam
and it might be more impactful to say
okay well if I want you to participate
in Hindu ceremonies and maybe dress as
and behave as and learn the the
behaviors of and pretend that you're
Hindu would you do it or not there might
be some families in which asking the
parents well would you join the
Republican Party for me would you come
to a Republican Party meeting and
support Donald Trump for several days a
year
where that could get them thinking along
the lines
and of course for other families that
wouldn't be effective at all it's better
give me bucks - and and what that that
impact every consideration might be but
you know I think the next step has to be
if you say to them look dad if you came
with me and you sat in the crowd and you
just applauded for Donald Trump we're
assuming this is someone who opposes
Donald Trump or in another family you
know you could switch the examples we
ask them to come to the Democrat Party
sorry for those of you aren't Americans
you can use your imagination you know in
your country someone supporting an
opposite political candidate
the reality is dad mom if you come to a
rally for Donald Trump and you just sit
there quietly and politely and go
through the motions of applauding and
approving of Donald Trump you do no harm
there are no outcomes it makes no
difference all you would be agreeing to
do would be to come and listen
Buddhists actually make that argument
about converting to Buddhism by the way
that all you're committing to is to is
to come and listen you know and I think
you could say that even about you know
becoming Muslim in a temporary sense in
a non-committal sense if you're not
believing anything what are you actually
doing by participating in the prayer
what are you actually doing you're just
coming and listening and yet it's
stirring to people even have to imagine
doing that several this year because it
violates their sense of ethics ideology
identity etc they don't want to be a
fake Muslim for even one day let alone
several days a year they don't want to
sit in the pews and listen at a Catholic
Church if they're not Catholic and so on
even though there is no harm but the
difference is unlike going to a rally
for Donald Trump when you're going to a
rally for the meat party when you're
eating beef when you're eating yogurt
and ice cream and fish you really are
doing harm you really are having these
kinds of negative impacts apart from in
addition to the sense of you know
violating or sacrificing your personal
identity okay so I think that wraps it
up for this video
the general point I wanted to make about
I've said it in many ways on the
internet I've said it in writing of set
in videos I think one of the false
ideologies were raised with from
childhood forward is the idea that that
compromise is a good thing and it's not
it's worse than poison compromise is a
false god compromise is something that
people are taught to believe in and it's
an idol that people are taught to make
sacrifices to and that is very very
dangerous
I do not think that anyone should
sacrifice anything
for the sake of compromise and that's
exactly what our society is constantly
urging us to do and you know apart from
sacrificing your time or your money or
sacrificing your worldly possessions I
mean traditional religious sacrifices
only taking something precious and
putting it into the fire the worst thing
about the the ideologies of compromise
the false idol the false god of
compromise is that what you're being
asked to sacrifice is really something
much more precious than anything you own
you're being asked to sacrifice your
ethics you're being asked to sacrifice
who you are so whether it's your parents
who are asking you to compromise or an
authority figure in a school or
university I tell you any time you do it
you're gonna look back later and and
regret it and say I wish I hadn't
compromised about this Yale